Before I begin the run animation I'd like to get rid of all these key frames and the reason why is I
like to work between one and whatever I like to have the beginning of my animation or my animation that
cycle begin at frame one.
It's just easier for me to think about.
So I want to preserve this so I can export this out to unity.
I've been saving versions as we go we're here on version 42 now but I also want to be able to come back
to it easily and find it.
So what am I to do.
So I'm going to make a copy of this.
I'm gonna go to a file save copy and then I'm going to go to my exports folder here and I'll we'll call
this player underscore or idle we'll just call it that so I know that when I'm ready to export the FBI
works for the idle animation out to unity I can come back to this blend file and get it done.
So I'm just going to choose save me and since I've chosen to make a copy I'm still here in my original
number 42 blend file here.
So if I would have chosen save as I would have reverted to that new file.
But as it is I'm still here in the same file now that we've done that.
I think what I want to do is pretty much delete all of this.
So once again be sure you're saving inversions.
And be sure you save a copy of what you've just done here because we're going to need that to export
to unity.
All right.
So what I'm to do down here is I'm just gonna hit the a key and I'll hit delete and delete key frames.
Now if you want to keep anything from this.
Like if you want to keep say the eye blinks or something like that be sure and do that.
Go ahead and only select the other key frames.
But for me I'm not going to need an eye blink for the run we're gonna do a six frame run.
If he blinks it's kind of look very strange.
So I don't need a blink for the run animation so I'm just going to select everything it delete and delete
key frames.
And then we go up here in the grease pencil.
I think I'm going to keep all of these for now.
So let's come up here and select the rig.
Let's go to pose mode.
I'm going to go ahead and hit the A key just like everything.
And then I want to press Alt are all G and that will get him back to his original pose there.
So as I said the run cycle is only going to be about six or seven frames so we could probably change
our playback range from hundred and forty three frames.
Let's just choose 13 frames.
Let's do that and let's go ahead and get him blocked out in 3D before we begin changing the 2D face.
I think for the 2D face I'm going to turn the eyebrows down and have them be kind of angry and determined
while he runs.
But for now this is fine.
So I think what I'll do is begin say on the right side here and what I'm gonna do is pose him for that
first frame of the run cycle and to do that I think first of all this leg here should probably come
out a bit.
Maybe I'll even bring this down some let me bring this down like this kind of a squat there and then
this leg the left leg should probably come out and I'll turn it up like this it kind of stretches out
like that something like that and the other leg or the right leg should probably rotate like this and
I'll bring it up and back kind of like this again.
Let's see how that's working.
Okay I'll take this hips or root bone and turn it forward a bit we could turn any one of these forward
a bit.
I'll hit arm and turn that over to bet.
The head should probably look up like that.
So you can see where he's going and then we will adjust the arms.
Now the arms are always going to be the opposite of the legs so if we're dealing with this arm it's
gonna be the opposite of the same leg.
So I'll bring that down and since this leg is forward then that means this arm should be back right.
Press Control three to spin around to the other side and let's select the upper arm.
Oh let me go to the front view here instead and bring this down and then maybe I'll bring it forward
like this.
There we go let's try this
okay.
So we've got him kind of in that beginning pose.
That's good.
Now just like we did before that beginning pose is gonna have to be at the very end as well.
So with all of these selected I'll go ahead and hit a and I'll press shift D and let's bring this all
the way down to twelve here.
Let's do that.
Let me change that endpoint to twelve.
There we go.
Now we need to go to frame seven and we basically need to do the opposite of what we have here.
So if this leg is out here then this leg needs to be out there.
Now we can try to use the paste and flip feature of blender but with a character like this it might
not work real well but we can try it.
Let me select this and this and we moved this and this let's give this a try and see.
So if we copy these if we went to key copy key frames back flip back on frame one.
Let's let's do that.
Let's go to Key.
Copy.
Key frames then if we go to frame 7 we could say key paste flipped key frames.
And my guess is this isn't going to work for this character and my guess is correct.
So yeah that's not going to work here.
So we need to do that manually.
So let's go ahead and give it a try.
It isn't that hard.
I'm going to take this but here and move it forward rotate it and kind of get it up where this foot
is like this.
And then I'm going to take this foot and move it back rotate it and put it back about where that one
was as well about like that.
Let's see.
I'm going to click over here.
And then click back.
Yeah you can see a little bit of movement there but not bad.
So maybe this could come up a bit.
And maybe this could come down a bit like this.
So I'm just clicking on frame one with the right mouse button and then on frame 7 just to see how they
match up.
All right that looks pretty good.
Let's take on frame 7 let's take the right arm and I'm going to hit the arc key and spin it up like
this.
And we go and then I want to take this one
and spin it back like this and let's see how we did.
One frame seven.
Not bad.
Let me rotate this down just a hair like this.
Yeah.
So as I click between 1 and 7 you can see there's minimal movement here yeah.
That's good.
And then on frame twelve we have that original key frame original key set.
OK so now if we hit play this is what we get.
Right.
A very basic run but I think we can do a little bit more than this so let's give it a try.
Let's go back to frame two here and on frame two he kind of needs to come down on the ground.
He needs to kind of hit the ground flat footed.
The weight of the character needs to come down.
Go to the side view.
And so as I said the weight of the character should come down the foot here.
Let's press Alt are and then let's press all G and get that back on the ground and then let's slide
that forward right there.
So you see how he's kind of bringing that foot down flat on the ground if we go back to frame one.
This is kind of what we get here all right.
And then this foot here isn't too bad but I think it should come forward maybe even.
Uh we could kind of go like that.
Let's try that.
Let's go back to frame one.
So you see how they're kind of moving closer together the two feet or moving closer together as he comes
down and puts the weight of the body on the foot here.
That now the arms should probably swing in just a bit.
So from here we should probably have him bring the arm down like this.
And on the other side control three maybe he should bring the arms in just a bit like this.
All right.
So let's see how that works like that.
Yeah.
He kind of hits the ground now he might be able to come down a little bit more probably not too much
but this is really what they call the down position.
He should be at his lowest point here on frame to go.
All right let's go quickly do that over here on frame eight.
We need to do the same thing.
So here we have him with that foot here.
All right.
We need to hear we need to take that same foot and put it flat on the ground.
All are all G.
Slide it forward a bit and then we'll take this foot and move it forward just a little bit like that
we'll do the same things with the arms.
Them down a bit control our control three excuse me and move this in a bit.
Let's see how that works.
OK.
Yeah so we've got frame to frame eight.
Oh we need to bring this down.
You're like this.
Bring that down frame eight frame to eight.
That's a little bit too far.
All right.
It looks like what I did is the the down position of the hips was Kerry carried over into my frame seven
key frame.
So what we need to do is we need to take the key frames I me press Alt A Down here we need to select
the key frame for the hips here for the route right here and duplicate that over to here.
So you can see here it is up in here he's down.
He needs to be the he needs to be at the same place here.
So let's take that one key frame and flip and press shift D and move that over to here.
There we go.
So now 1 and 7 is the same only opposite.
Right.
Like that.
And so now two and eight should be the same only opposite as well.
All right.
So if we hit the spacebar that's what we have so far.
He's pretty good and bad but we can do a little bit more so in the next video we will continue working
on the run animation.